# Atlantic Chat App Documentation
## About
 This next bit will be about how Atlantic works, so you are here for help, please go [here](#Help). 
Atlantic is written in Node.Js, and is rendered through ejs. The chat messaging system uses a socket-IO server to emit chat messages to all clients in a room. The connection is established in the room.js file, and on establishment the server joins your socket object to the room that you have requested. From then out, messages under the event name `newMessage` will be emitted to you as soon as they are sent to the server. 
## On the saving of messages
Messages are not saved as of now. When messages get emitted to the server, some statistics get collected and then the message gets immediately forwarded to all clients in the specified room. The message then gets rendered by the room.js file. It is for this reason that if you leave a room, and then re-join it, you will not be able to see messages that were sent before you left- they are temporary. This concept promotes security and anonymity. However, this feature might be added in a future update.


## Help
Once you create an account, you will be greeted with the main page. This includes a list of open rooms, and an option for creating a room.
### The main page (lobby)
The lobby will greet you with a list of open rooms. To join a room, click on its name. Private rooms are displayed red. When you hover over a room, its name will turn blue and you will see a small tooltip to its right showing if it is private or public. If it is private, you will be prompted to give the room's password before being allowed to join it. At the top of the screen, there is a small black bar. To the right of this bar, you will see your username in blue. If you click this username, a settings UI will appear. Here, you can change your username and password, as well as dark/light mode settings. Notice: Dark mode may not look quite as visually appealing as light mode, because I hate spending time on css.
### Creating a room
To create a room, you can select the Add Room option at the top left of the main lobby. You will be redirected to a room creation page, where you will be prompted to enter the rooms details. If you want your room to be private, set the password to `none`. After submitting the room creation form, you will be redirected to the lobby. The name of your new room should appear, but you might need to wait a little bit if there are a lot of people online, because this may cause server speed to decline. Please note that creating a room does not make you a "room owner" or anything, and you do not have jurisdiction over what is said or who is allowed. However, this may change in a future update.